CST334        Homework 1     NAME:Richard D Ciampa

Due: 09/11/2013 (Thursday) 11:55(PM)

INSTRUCTION:

1. Copy this file (hw1.txt) to your directory.

2. Don't forget to write your name at the top.
   When you save the file, use the plain text format.
   Do not use a word processor such as Microsoft word.

3. Upload your text file on to iLearn HW1.


------------------------- ASSIGNMENT -------------------------

1. Read A.1 and A.2 of "Reading Material: BSD UNIX" on iLearn.
   a) In what language are Unix and Linux written?
	The origianl (AT&T) Unix was writen in asembly, later versions were
	writen in C. Linux was originally and is today, writen in C.
  
       What does the language have to do with its success?
	There are many reasons that the language used to write Unix &
	Linux have made it popular. The prodomanat reason is that many
        people knew the C language as it was an easier language to author in
        and were able to contribute to the linux kernal and many of the base 
        applications (utilities) that make-up a linux distrobution.

   b) Does FreeBSD run on the Intel processor? Yes, and others too.
	i386, 486, amd x86 & 64, PowerPc (Motorola) and Sparc64.

   c) What are the basic functions of an OS? The basic functios of an OS,
      are really kernal functions. The kernal allows the communication from
      utility or user applications to the hardare via the kernal. The hardwar
      being the phisical computer system, cpu, pci bridge, serial ports,
      hard drives, usb and so on.
  
   d) What has Linux become so popular? There are many reasons, but here are a
      few: It is a duplication of a major industrial OS known as Unix. There
      were few places other than the scholastic arena to obtian training on
      a Unix system be for linux.

      With the ability to run a Unix like system on inexpensie harware like 
      Intel, AMD, Power PC, IA64 and Sparc it opened the door to many languges
      that both the scholastic and hobbiest craved.

      The Linux open source kernal was and still is popular becuase anyone can
      take the kernal source and modify it to serve their own needs, it may
      just be the fact that you need a light-wieght system to run on a small
      constraied piece of harware or maybe you want to modify the kernal and
      some of the open source utility applications, NIS stack and other apps
      to make a computer system that operates like no other system on the
      planet, that along with encription gives a heavy amout of security.

     Finnaly, there are today many development platforms, applications and
     business uses for Linux, and they are all free.........!   
      
2. Conduct your own research on the operating systems of iPhone 
   and Android phones. Present comparison of the two operating 
   systems using at least 100 words.
   At the end of your description, you should present your 
   reference(s).
   (If you just copy and paste from the references
   (or web sites), you will get zero point.)
           

3. Answer the questions.
   a) What is the name of a Python compiler used in Linux?
       Does the mlc104 machine have it? Well, Python is not compiled into
       bianary files like other languages for example C, C++, Ada and others.
       Python is and interpreted language. However, Pythons intrepreter is
       called simply python, you can test this by going to the terminal 
       prompt and type "python" you will see that this installaton has an
       old version of python installed 2.6.6, the most current release is
       3.4.x
               
   b) Can you develop an android app in the Linux machine?
       If yes, present briefly how you would do it. Yes, Linux is Andriod's
       native environment. The majority of Andriod applications are written
       in Java with supporting XML, Images and Text files. There are several
       ways to develop Andriod applications in a Linux/OS X or Windows
       environment. The first is, by downloading the Java JDK (not JRE)
       and writting Java classes. This is how it first was, then Andriod
       developed ADT (Andriod Development Kit) an SDK for the Eclipse IDE.
       The latest addition to the Android development capabilities is the
       Android Studio IDE, which when in production will be the premier
       IDE for developing Andoid applications for both phone and tablet. 

       
4. Conduct your own research on Max OS X and MS Windows 7 
   on the Internet. Present advantages and disadvantages 
   of Mac OS X over Windows 7 in at least 100 words.
   At the end of your description, you should present
   your reference(s).
   (If you just copy and paste from the references 
   (or web sites), you will get zero point.)

5. a) What is GNU? GNU, was origianally a Unix like operating system created
      by Richard Stallman, based on the GNU Hurd kernal(Asymmeteric). The operating system
      was never released by the GNU project but many of the open source
      system utilities have since been ported to the Linux kernal and released
      with Linux distibutions under the GNU public license.
 
   b) List 10 common commands you have learned in class: ls, cd, mkdir, pwd
      touch, cat, grep, less, more, tail, |, gcc, g++, vi, nano, hostname,
      zcat, and others.....  
   

   c) What are relative path and absolute path? Absolute path is the directory
      path that always starts from the "/" root mount point. A relative path
      is a path structure that starts from either the current direcotry or one
      or more directories above or before the current direcotry. Some examples
      of a relative path include, NextFolder/file, ../OtherDir/file,
      ../../UpTwoDir/file.

   d) Is Linux a Unix? No, but is does share many of the same capabilities
      and is POSIX compliant, so that applications that are able to run on
      Unix natively can also run on Linux.

   e) Provide 5 Linux&GNU distros: Red Hat, Open SuSe, Unbuntu, CentOS,
      FreeBSD, Debian, NetBSD, BeOS and others
   

-----------------------------------------------------------

